In previous videos,
we talked about using
generalized policy iteration
to find an optimal policy.
We've also talked about using
TD to estimate value functions.
What would it look like
if we use TD to do
the policy evaluation step
in generalized policy iteration?
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to explain how
generalized policy
iteration can be used
with TD to find
improved policies,
as well as describe the
Sarsa control algorithm.
Generalized policy
iteration or GPI,
combines two parts;
policy evaluation and
policy improvement.
The first algorithm we saw with
this form was policy iteration.
Policy iteration runs
policy evaluation to
convergence before
gratifying the policy.
Then, we saw GPI
with Monte Carlo,
which performs a cycle of
policy evaluation and
improvement every episode.
To better remember
GPI with Monte Carlo,
imagine a mouse in
a four-state corridor
with cheese at the end.
The mouse starts out
knowing nothing and
follows a random policy.
Eventually, the mouse
will stumble into
the cheese just by
moving randomly.
At that point, the mouse
updates its action values.
Then it improves
its policy by greed
defined with respect
to its action values.
As the process repeats,
it will eventually learn
the optimal policy.
Notice that GPI with
Monte Carlo does not perform
a full policy evaluation step
before improvement.
Rather, it evaluates and
improves after each episode.
Going even further, we
could improve the policy
after just one policy
evaluation step.
We will do this with TD.
To use TD within GPI,
we need to learn
an action value function.
So we'll need to look at
slightly different version of
TD than you've seen in the past.
Instead of looking at
transitions from state to
state and learn
the value of each state,
let's look at transitions
from state action pair to
state action pair and learn
the value of each pair.
This algorithm is called
Sarsa prediction.
Let's look at it in
a bit more detail.
The sarsa acronym
describes the data
used in the updates, state,
action, reward, next state,
and next action.
Sarsa makes predictions about
the values of state action pairs.
The agent chooses an action,
in the initial state to
create the first
state action pair.
Next, it takes that action
in the current state and observes
the reward RT plus 1 and
next state ST plus one.
In Sarsa, the agent needs to know
its next state action pair
before updating
its value estimates.
That means it has to commit to
its next action
before the update.
Since our agent is learning
action values for
a specific policy,
it uses that policy to
sample the next action.
Here's the full update equation.
It actually looks
quite similar to
the TD update for state values,
with state values V of S
replaced by action values QSA.
The algorithm we just described
is for policy evaluation.
It learns action values for
a specific fixed policy.
However, thanks
the GPI framework,
we can turn it into
a control algorithm.
This time, we'll improve
the policy every time step rather
than after an episode
or after convergence.
This completes
the description of Sarsa,
the GPI algorithm that uses
TD for policy evaluation.
In this video, we talked
about how we can combine
generalized policy iteration with
TD learning to find
improved policies.
Sarsa control is an example
of GPI with TD learning.